Purrcival and the Clever Mice

In a very big house, there lived a sneaky cat named Purrcival. He had sharp claws and very soft fur. Purrcival loved to hunt the little mice that lived inside the walls.

The mice were very afraid of Purrcival. They stayed hidden in their dark, tiny holes all day long. They only came out for food when the big cat was fast asleep and snoring.

One day, Purrcival caught many mice with his quick paws. The mouse family grew very small. The remaining mice decided to stay inside their holes forever to stay safe from the hungry cat.

Purrcival waited and waited, but no mice came out to play. His belly began to grumble loudly. He knew he had to be very clever to trick the smart mice into coming outside.

Purrcival found a wooden peg on the kitchen wall. He decided to hang himself by his back legs. He stayed very still and closed his eyes tight, pretending to be a dead cat.

He looked just like a heavy bag of laundry hanging there. Purrcival did not move a single whisker. He waited for the mice to see him and think that he was gone.

A brave little mouse named Pip peeked out from a hole. He saw Purrcival hanging from the wall. Pip called to his friends, "Look! The scary cat is finally gone for good!"

More mice gathered at the edge of their hole. They whispered about the hanging cat. They were very hungry and wanted to find some cheese, but they were still a little bit afraid.

An old, wise mouse named Nibblet looked at Purrcival very closely. He sniffed the air and shook his head. Nibblet knew that cats were very tricky and this looked like a big trap.

"Stay back!" Nibblet shouted to the other mice. "That cat is playing a game. Even if he were a stuffed bag, I would not come near him. We must stay safe inside."

Purrcival was very angry that his trick did not work. He climbed down and found a pile of white flour. He rolled around until he was white from his head to his tail.

Purrcival hid inside the flour bin, looking like a giant heap of white dust. He waited for the mice to come and nibble on the grain. He remained very quiet and very still.

Pip saw the white pile and thought it was just food. He started to run toward the bin. He was very excited to finally eat a big dinner after waiting so long.

Nibblet stopped Pip just in time. "Wait! That pile of flour has ears!" Nibblet cried out. The mice saw the cat's ears twitch and they all ran back into their safe hole.

Purrcival never caught the wise mice again. They learned to be careful and never trust a trick. The moral of the story is: those who are wise are not easily fooled.