The Ass and the Lap Dog

Aurelio was a strong donkey who worked very hard every single day. He carried heavy bags of grain and pulled big carts for his master, Silas, under the hot, golden summer sun.

Silas was a kind master who owned a big, green farm. He often watched Aurelio work from the porch. Silas appreciated the donkey's strength, but he did not show much extra affection.

Pip was a tiny lap dog with soft fur and a very waggy tail. He did not have to work in the fields or carry heavy bags like Aurelio did every morning.

Whenever Silas returned home, Pip would run fast to meet him. Pip would bark happily and jump up to lick the master's hand. Silas always laughed and patted the little dog’s head.

Silas would sit in his favorite chair and let Pip climb into his lap. He gave the little dog tasty treats and spoke to him in a very gentle and loving voice.

Aurelio watched through the open barn door. He felt a little bit sad. He wondered why the tiny dog got so much love while he only received heavy loads to carry daily.

“It is not fair,” Aurelio thought to himself. “I work much harder than Pip. If I act like that little dog, maybe Silas will love me and give me sweet treats too.”

Aurelio decided to try a new plan. He practiced wagging his short tail and tried to make a playful sound. He wanted to be the master's favorite pet instead of a worker.

One afternoon, Aurelio broke out of his stable. He trotted toward the big house. He was feeling very excited to show Silas how much fun a big donkey could really be today.

Aurelio pushed open the front door and entered the room. Silas was sitting quietly in his chair. The master looked up and was very surprised to see the large donkey inside his home.

Aurelio began to dance around the room. He kicked his legs and tried to wag his tail just like Pip. He knocked over a table and broke a very pretty flower vase.

Then, Aurelio did what Pip always did. He took a giant leap and tried to sit on Silas’s lap. The heavy donkey landed right on top of the poor, startled master instead.

Silas yelled in surprise as the heavy donkey crushed his chair. He was not happy at all. He struggled to get away from Aurelio’s big hooves and his wet, sloppy donkey kisses.

Silas pushed Aurelio away and pointed back toward the barn. Aurelio realized his mistake. He saw that trying to be a lap dog was a very bad idea for a big donkey.

Aurelio learned that he should be happy being himself. The moral is: Do not try to be something you are not, because what works for one may not work for another.