The Sun and the North Wind

High up in the blue sky, Helia the golden sun and Boreas the cold north wind were arguing. Boreas claimed his mighty strength was far superior to Helia's soft, gentle, glowing light.

Below them, a lonely traveler named Silas walked along a winding mountain path. He wore a thick, heavy coat to protect himself from the chilly air as he moved toward the village.

"Let us have a contest," Boreas boomed. "Whoever can make Silas remove his coat is the strongest." Helia agreed and ducked behind a fluffy white cloud to let the wind go first.

Boreas took a very deep breath and blew a powerful, icy gust of wind toward the ground. He wanted to rip the coat right off the traveler’s back with his incredible force.

Instead of losing his coat, Silas felt the sudden chill and shivered. He quickly pulled the heavy fabric closer to his chest and tucked his chin down to stay warm and cozy.

Boreas became angry and blew even harder, creating a swirling blizzard of snow and ice. The wind howled through the trees, making the branches shake and the dead leaves fly into air.

Silas struggled against the howling storm, but he did not give up. He wrapped his arms tightly around his body and fastened every single button to keep the freezing cold wind out.

Finally, the wind grew tired and stopped his puffing. Boreas grumbled, "I really cannot make him take it off." Helia smiled and peeked from behind her cloud to take her turn now.

Helia began to shine her warm, golden rays down upon the traveler. Silas noticed the change immediately. The biting wind had stopped, and a pleasant warmth began to spread across his shoulders.

Helia shone even brighter, casting brilliant light over the world. Silas started to feel quite warm. He unbuttoned his coat and wiped a few drops of sweat from his forehead with his hand.

Soon, it was much too hot for a heavy coat. Silas stopped by a tall tree and took the coat off his shoulders. He carried it as he continued on his way.

Helia won the contest easily. The moral of the story is that kindness and gentle persuasion are often much more effective than using brute force and anger to get what you want.