Lanol and the Wolf's Excuse

Little Lanol the lamb felt very thirsty today. He found a sparkling stream that bubbled softly over smooth, gray rocks. The water looked cool and delicious under the bright, warm afternoon sun.

High on the hill, Lykos the hungry wolf was watching. He saw the fluffy lamb drinking and felt his stomach growl. He decided to find a silly reason to catch poor Lanol.

Lykos walked down to the water and stood near the little lamb. He looked very mean and showed his sharp white teeth. Lanol looked up and felt his tiny heart beat fast.

"How dare you muddy my drinking water?" Lykos shouted loudly. "You are kicking up dirt and making it impossible for me to enjoy my cool drink! You are a very naughty little lamb."

Lanol looked at the flowing water and spoke very softly. "Please, sir, I am drinking far downstream from you. The water flows from you to me, so I cannot muddy your drink today."

Lykos frowned because the lamb was right. He had to think of a new reason to be angry. He stepped closer to Lanol and narrowed his yellow eyes with a deep growl.

"Well, you insulted me last year!" the wolf barked. "I remember your rude words very clearly. You were very mean to me in this exact spot, and now I am very cross."

Lanol shook his head and felt very confused. "Sir, that is impossible," he replied. "I was not even born last year. I am only a few months old and just a baby."

Lykos snorted and paced back and forth on the grass. "If it was not you, then it must have been your older brother! He was the one who said those mean things then."

Lanol blinked his large eyes and looked at the wolf. "But I do not have any brothers, sir. I am the only child in my family. I have always been alone here."

"Then it must have been your father!" Lykos snarled. "It does not matter who it was. Someone from your family was mean, and now you must pay for their very bad behavior."

Lykos crouched low in the tall grass and prepared to spring. Lanol felt very scared and did not know where to run. The big wolf looked ready to jump at any moment.

"Wait!" Lanol cried out loud. "Why are you making up these stories? I have done nothing wrong to you. Please listen to the truth instead of finding excuses to be mean to me."

Lykos did not care about the truth at all. He only wanted his dinner. He let out a giant roar and leaped through the air toward the poor, innocent little lamb waiting below.

Tyrants will always find an excuse for their bad deeds, even when the truth is clear. It is hard to argue with someone who has already decided to be very, very mean.