The Cobbler’s Clever Secret

Silas was a cobbler who lived in a tiny, dusty shop. He tried his best to fix old shoes, but he was not very good at his job. Nobody bought his shoes.

Silas felt very sad because his shop was empty and quiet. He decided to leave his home and travel to a far away city where no one knew his name or face.

He packed his bags and found a shiny, blue bottle. Silas had a sneaky plan. He would tell everyone that he was a famous doctor with a very special magic potion.

Silas arrived in a big, busy city. He wore a fancy cape and stood on a wooden box. He shouted loudly so that all the people in the market could hear him.

"Come and see!" Silas cried out. "I have a magic medicine that can cure anything. Just one tiny drop of this blue liquid will keep you safe from every single sickness!"

The people believed Silas. They lined up to buy his colorful bottles. Silas was very happy because he was finally making lots of money. He thought his lie was a success.

Governor Alaric heard about the amazing new doctor in town. He was a very wise leader. Alaric wanted to see if Silas was telling the truth or just playing a trick.

Alaric went to the market to find Silas. He saw the cobbler selling his blue bottles. Silas bowed low and smiled, pretending to be the smartest doctor in the whole world.

"I have a test for you," Alaric said firmly. He pulled out a cup of water. "This is poison. You must drink it and then use your medicine to save yourself."

Silas stared at the cup. His hands started to shake and his face turned very pale. He knew his magic medicine was just plain water and it could not save him.

Silas was very afraid. He did not want to drink the poison. He realized that his big lie had put him in a very dangerous spot. He started to cry out.

"I am so sorry!" Silas confessed. "I am not a doctor. I am just a poor cobbler who cannot fix shoes. Please do not make me drink the poison, Governor Alaric!"

Governor Alaric smiled and tipped the cup over. It was only water! "You must never pretend to be someone you are not," the Governor said. "Go back to your shoes, Silas."

Silas went back to his workshop. He worked very hard to learn his true trade. Soon, he became the best cobbler in the land. He was proud of his work.

We should always be honest about who we are. Pretending to have skills we do not possess only leads to trouble. True success comes from working hard at what you know.