The Eagle and the Beetle

Aetos the Eagle was a very large and powerful bird. She soared high above the green valley, searching for a small snack. Her sharp eyes spotted Lagos the Hare hiding in the long green grass.

Lagos the Hare was very frightened of the big eagle. He hopped as fast as his legs could carry him. He saw a tiny hole where Kantharos the Beetle lived and asked for help today.

“Please, Aetos!” Kantharos the Beetle buzzed loudly. “Do not hurt my friend Lagos. He is very small and came to me for protection. Please show him some kindness today and let him go right now.”

Aetos did not listen to the tiny beetle. She thought Kantharos was much too small to matter. With one swift move, she snatched Lagos away and flew back to her high mountain nest very quickly.

Kantharos the Beetle was very angry and sad. He had asked for mercy, but the eagle ignored him. “I will make sure Aetos regrets being so mean to us,” the brave beetle vowed with great strength.

Kantharos waited until Aetos left her nest to find food. He climbed up the steep, rocky mountain. It was a very long journey for a little bug, but he did not stop once to rest.

When he reached the top, Kantharos found two large, white eggs. He used his strong legs to push and roll them. The eggs tumbled out of the nest and fell far, far down to the ground.

Aetos returned and found her eggs were gone. She cried out in sadness and looked everywhere. She did not know that a tiny beetle could ever reach her home so high up in the blue sky.

The next year, Aetos built her nest even higher on a jagged cliff. She thought she was safe now. But Kantharos the Beetle was very persistent and found her new home once again with great effort.

Once more, Kantharos rolled the eagle’s eggs out of the nest. Aetos was absolutely heartbroken. She decided she needed help from the Great Basileus who lived high inside a beautiful and golden palace far away.

“Please protect my eggs,” Aetos begged. Great Basileus agreed to help the majestic bird. He allowed Aetos to lay her eggs right in his lap while he sat on his big, golden throne for safety.

Kantharos saw this and made a plan. He rolled a small ball of dirt and flew high above the King. He dropped the ball right onto Basileus’s lap where the eggs were resting very quietly.

Basileus saw the dirt and jumped up to brush it away. He forgot all about the eagle’s eggs in his lap. They rolled off and broke on the floor of the beautiful palace with a crack.

Aetos finally understood that she should have been kind to Kantharos. Even the smallest creature can be a powerful enemy if they are treated poorly. She truly regretted her choices from that very sad day.

Never look down on those who seem smaller than you. Everyone deserves respect and kindness. A small friend can be a great help, but a small enemy can cause a lot of trouble for you.