The Sick Lion

Old King Leander the lion was feeling very weak. He could no longer chase the fast zebras or jump over the tall bushes. He needed a clever plan to fill his belly.

Leander crawled into his cool, dark cave. He lay down on the soft dirt and let out a very loud, fake groan. He wanted the whole forest to think he was dying.

Soon, the news spread through the trees. All the animals heard that their king was very sick. They felt sorry for him and decided to visit him inside his deep, dark cave.

Pinda the zebra arrived first at the cave entrance. She saw Leander lying very still in the shadows. "Oh, poor king," she whispered. She stepped inside to see if he needed help.

As soon as Pinda walked deep into the darkness, Leander jumped up! He was not sick at all. He caught the poor zebra and ate a very big and delicious dinner.

The next day, Capra the goat came to visit. She heard the lion groaning loudly again. "Are you feeling better?" she asked softly. She walked right into the cave to be kind.

Leander was ready for his next snack. He waited for Capra to get close before he pounced. Now the lion was full and happy, still pretending to be very ill inside.

Many days passed, and many animals entered the cave. None of them ever came back out. The cave floor was covered in many footprints, but they all pointed only one single way.

Vulpes the fox was very wise and careful. He heard about the sick lion and went to the cave. He stood a safe distance away from the dark and scary opening.

Leander saw Vulpes waiting outside. He put on his best sick voice and coughed loudly. "Please come inside, dear friend," the lion called out. "I am so lonely and very ill."

Vulpes looked down at the dusty ground in front of the cave. He saw many tracks from many animals. He looked very closely at the dirt with his bright and clever eyes.

"I would love to come inside and visit you," Vulpes shouted back to the lion. "But I see something very strange here in the sand. It makes me feel very worried."

Leander peeked his head out of the cave. "What is it?" he asked. Vulpes pointed to the tracks. "I see many footprints going in, but I see none coming back out!"

Vulpes turned around and ran away as fast as he could. He was far too smart to be caught by the lion’s trick. He went to warn the other forest animals.

Moral: Learn from the mistakes of others so you do not get hurt. Always look at the signs around you before you walk into a situation that might be very dangerous.