The Dancing Monkey and the Clumsy Camel

The jungle animals gathered for a grand celebration. Banan the monkey was the star of the show. He leaped onto a flat rock and began a very fast, energetic, and wonderful jungle dance now.

Banan twisted and turned with great speed. He swung his long arms and made funny faces. All the animals laughed and cheered loudly for the clever little monkey because he was so amazingly talented today.

The animals were so happy with Banan's performance. They decided that a monkey who could dance like that should be their new king. They placed a shiny, heavy, gold crown firmly on his head.

Jengo the camel watched from the back of the crowd. He was very tall and felt very jealous. He wanted the animals to cheer for him and give him a bright crown just like that.

"I can do that," Jengo thought to himself. "I am much bigger than a monkey. If I dance, they will see how grand I am and make me the mighty king instead of little Banan."

Jengo pushed his way to the center of the clearing. He stood on his long legs and began to wiggle his hump. He tried to copy Banan’s fast, wild, and very silly dance movements now.

But Jengo was not light and fast like Banan. When he tried to spin, his big feet tripped over each other. He stumbled and nearly fell onto the surprised, frightened animals standing very nearby now.

Jengo did not stop trying. He kicked his long legs into the air and let out a loud, awkward sound. He thought he was being graceful, but he looked very strange, clumsy, and odd indeed.

The animals did not laugh with joy this time. Instead, they looked very confused and a little bit scared. Jengo’s big, clumsy dancing was making a huge, ugly mess of the beautiful, green jungle clearing.

Banan watched from his rock, holding his new crown. He saw Jengo struggling to keep his balance. The camel’s long neck wobbled back and forth as he tried to jump very, very high up now.

Suddenly, Jengo lost his balance completely. He crashed down into a thick patch of prickly bushes. He looked very silly with leaves stuck to his fur and his four legs kicking in the bright air.

The animals grew angry at the camel. "You are not a dancer!" they cried. "You are just trying to be something you are not. Go away and let us enjoy our new, true king now."

Jengo felt very embarrassed as he stood up. He realized that trying to copy Banan was a big mistake. He was a camel, not a monkey, and he did not belong dancing there at all.

He walked away from the clearing with his head held low. Behind him, he heard the animals cheering for Banan again. Jengo learned that it is always better to simply be yourself completely instead today.

Moral: Do not try to copy others just to get praise. If you try to be someone else, you will only look foolish. Always be proud of the unique talents you certainly have right now.