The Bell and the Brave Mice

Milo the mouse lived in a very tiny hole. He was always scared because a big cat named Pounce was always nearby. Milo wanted to find a clever way to stay safe.

Sage was an older mouse who lived nearby. She sat on a small wood block and watched for the cat. Sage knew that Pounce was very fast and had very sharp claws.

Pounce the cat walked through the kitchen. He moved silently on his soft paws. His long tail swished back and forth. Pounce was looking for any little mouse that might be out.

One sunny morning, Milo called for a big meeting. He stood on a red bottle cap to speak. Milo wanted to find a clever plan to stop the scary cat from biting.

Sage climbed up to the meeting spot. She looked at Milo with her big, dark eyes. All the mice wanted to listen. They needed a plan to help them live in peace.

"The cat is too quiet," Milo said loudly. "We never hear him coming until it is too late." He looked at Sage. They both nodded their heads in a very total agreement.

Milo held up a bright, shiny silver bell. "If we put this bell on Pounce, we will hear him!" The bell made a cheerful ringing sound that filled the small mouse room.

Sage smiled at the shiny bell. "That is a wonderful idea, Milo," she said softly. "The bell will ring whenever Pounce moves. We will have plenty of time to run and hide."

Milo held the bell high in the air. He felt very proud of his smart idea. He thought they would never be scared of the big, hungry cat ever again in life.

Then, Sage stood up and asked a very important question. "Your plan is very good, Milo. But who among us will step forward and tie the bell onto the cat’s neck?"

Milo looked down at his small paws. He was very quiet now. He did not want to go near Pounce. He realized that a good idea is only good if done.

Sage sighed and looked at the bell. "It is easy to suggest a brave plan," she said. "But doing it is hard. We need a hero to help us right now."

Pounce the cat was still sleeping by the stove. He did not know that the mice were talking about him. His long whiskers twitched as he dreamed about chasing small things.

Milo put the bell down on the dusty floor. He knew he was not brave enough to face the cat. All the other mice started to walk back to their holes.

Sage looked at Milo one last time. "We must find a better way," she said. The mice stayed safe. Moral: It is easy to propose what simply cannot be done.