Silas and the Hidden Wolf

Young Silas sat on the grassy hillside every single day. He watched over his flock of fluffy white sheep. The sun was warm, but Silas felt very bored with his quiet, lonely job.

"I wish something exciting would happen," Silas whispered to himself. He looked at the quiet village below. He suddenly thought of a very naughty plan to make the villagers run up the hill.

Silas stood up and cupped his hands around his mouth. "Wolf! Wolf! A giant wolf is chasing the sheep!" he screamed loudly. His voice echoed through the trees and reached the busy town.

Down in the village, Arlo heard the loud shouting. He dropped his heavy wooden hammer and grabbed a pitchfork. He started running up the steep hill as fast as his legs could go.

Milo heard the cries too. He left his warm bakery and followed Arlo. They both panted and sweated, worried that the poor sheep were in great danger from the hungry, scary gray wolf.

When they reached the top, they saw Silas laughing. There was no wolf anywhere. The sheep were eating grass peacefully. "I fooled you both!" Silas giggled while pointing his finger at them.

Arlo and Milo were very grumpy. "Do not cry wolf when there is no wolf, Silas!" Milo warned. They walked back down the hill, feeling very tired and quite unhappy with Silas.

A few days later, Silas felt bored again. He decided to play the same trick. "Wolf! Wolf!" he yelled. Arlo and Milo ran up the hill again to help the young boy.

Once more, there was no wolf. Arlo looked at Silas with a very stern face. "You must stop telling lies," he said. The villagers were now very angry and did not trust Silas.

Suddenly, a real wolf crept out from the dark shadows of the forest. It had sharp teeth and glowing eyes. Silas was terrified. "Wolf! Help! There is a real wolf here!" he screamed.

Down in the village, Arlo and Milo heard his cries. "He is just playing another trick," Milo said. They stayed in their homes and did not help. Silas was left all alone.

The wolf chased the sheep away into the woods. Silas cried because nobody believed him. The moral is: Nobody believes a liar, even when he is finally telling the whole truth.