The Trumpeter's Song

Theron loved his shiny brass trumpet. He lived in a land filled with brave soldiers and big hills. Every morning, he practiced his loud songs under the very bright and warm summer yellow sun.

Theron wanted to be helpful during the big battle. He did not carry a sharp sword or a heavy shield. He only carried his favorite trumpet to make very loud and clear morning music.

The day of the battle arrived quickly. Theron felt nervous but also very proud. He stood on a high rock and waited for the right moment to play his first loud and bold song.

Theron took a deep breath and blew into his trumpet. A powerful sound echoed across the green fields. The music made the soldiers feel brave as they charged forward with very loud, excited cheers.

The soldiers ran fast toward the other army. They held their shields high and shouted. Theron continued to play his loud music, giving them all the strength they needed to keep moving forward today.

But the battle was very difficult for his side. Soon, the other army began to win. Theron tried to run away and hide behind a large green bush, but he was too slow.

A strong soldier named Nikos spotted Theron hiding. Nikos marched over with heavy boots. He reached down with a large hand to catch the little, hiding trumpet player in the very thick green grass.

Theron trembled with fear as Nikos pulled him up. Nikos looked very stern. He held Theron firmly so that the little trumpeter could not wiggle away or run back to his safe home.

"Please do not hurt me!" Theron cried out loudly. He held up his trumpet for Nikos to see. "I am just a simple musician. I do not have any sharp steel weapons at all."

"I have never killed anyone in my life. I only blow this trumpet. Why would you want to take me prisoner?" Theron looked at Nikos with a very small and extremely sad face.

"That is why you are my prisoner," Nikos said firmly. "Your music stirs up anger and gives the soldiers courage. You cause more trouble than anyone with a sharp and heavy iron metal sword."

Theron realized his music had great power. He felt sorry. The moral is: those who encourage others to do wrong are just as guilty as those who do the actual bad and evil deed.